John Wilson is credited with a revival
of recreational fishing in the United
Kingdom and maybe that country's most
respected most popular and most
successful angler John was fishing by
the age of 6 at 13 he began attending
meetings of the enfield town angling
society and went on to capture the top
junior angler award for the 1955 1956
season this was the beginning of John
Wilson's lifelong passion for angling
and for pursuing trophy fish for even
then he realized that catching bigger
Roach tench Pike and Zander was not only
more challenging but also much more
interesting Wilson left school at the
age of 15 and spent time as a
hairdresser on a cruise ship in the
Merchant Navy and in Barbados running a
chain of hairdressing salons in 1971 he
returned to England invested in a
Norwich tackle shop and said about
catching specimen fish convinced the
publicity surrounding such catches would
bring in customers his angling
achievements led to writing
opportunities at the beginning of a
40-year journalism career Wilson is one
of the sports most prolific writers with
36 titles to his credit as well as one
of Britain's leading angling
photographers in 1986 John began filming
his go fishing television program here
he shared his extensive knowledge of
species tackle and techniques and the
series ran 18 years the country's
longest running angling show as
travelling globally in search of exotic
species became more commonplace John's
articles books and programs began
focusing not only on the how-to but on
the exciting and entertaining where to
and before long he was escorting groups
of eager anglers to fascinating
destinations around the world he's
fished for Nile perch in Uganda bronze
Whaler sharks and Namibia and peacock
bass in Brazil 60 countries and all and
has many impressive catches to his
credit including a 92 pound Missouri a
220-pound bigeye tuna a 95-pound Vaughn
du catfish and his largest freshwater
catch a 300 pound white sturgeon the
show's fishing Safari dream
and fishing world followed for two
decades John brought the sport into the
homes and lives of millions he became so
well known throughout the UK that in
2004 angling times readers voted him the
greatest angler of all time John is most
honored however by the MBE he received
from Prince Charles in 2009 in
recognition of his services to angling
John's passion for fishing respect for
his quarry and gauging personality sense
of humor and concern for angling future
are evident in his written words
television shows DVDs and personal
appearances he's inspired countless
people to start fishing countless others
to get out there again and countless
more to venture beyond local waters
though he credits those around him for
his successes John alone is recognized
as the primary force behind the
resurgence of the sport in the United
Kingdom in the 1980s John Wilson is a
consummate ambassador of recreational
angling and the igfa fishing Hall of
Fame salutes him